Kevin Kaspar: Okay, guys, we're gonna have a back to back session. We're gonna have a back to back session. Now, we're gonna have 30 min live as a presentation from J. Lo! Jlo! I'll introduce her in a second, but she's 1 of our alumni, one of our most recent alumni
Kevin Kaspar: and she's made this session for you guys the day she finished. Texas, I want to come back and next class how to have a great textiles experience, I know, but it's a much needed workshop, because Jayla did a great job at it. So there are uniform homework. There are already a lot of people in the in the class here who have kind of said they wanna facilitate things similar to how you did. So they're very interested.
Kevin Kaspar: And then, directly after, at 3 30. We're gonna do our alumni panel and the alumni panel is one of the most helpful sessions the founders find, because you're getting real feedback from the alumni on how to take advantage of mistakes they've made open with you, and just help. You know the things they wish that they had when they were in your shoes. So we'll start with Jaylen.
Kevin Kaspar: We're recording this and I will pepper in questions for Jayla along the way of things, I think might be relevant to you guys. But also it'll be pretty informal. So you guys just raise your hand. Ask questions. Jayla is the founder and CEO of Travaris, which I'll let her pitch to you. But she just went through our most recent open class this past spring.
Kevin Kaspar: so graduated from head starts in June just had her demo day. She's a few months out. So literally right, you guys are like, right on her heel, starting the journey 6 months later from when she did so. It's extremely relevant. And we love having her.
Kevin Kaspar: I'm glad she's back. That's it. Beautiful!
Kevin Kaspar: Thanks for having me. I'll just show you like a quick bio. Okay? So I'm the CEO co-founder. We are building a regenerative travel platform for the mindful traveler. So essentially, what we're doing is building a marketplace that curates, vetted, certified, sustainable accommodation and activities. And building these personalized trip guides for people so that they can travel more mercially, culturally and authentically.
Kevin Kaspar: Yes.
Kevin Kaspar: scary business, and I was very nervous about investing, but somehow, some way they'll convince us. And not only us, but you acting. You have active interest now with investors. Right? Yes, so
Kevin Kaspar: yes, this is true. When we joined Neil told us that they never invest in travel, and they never do travel tech specifically unless it's like maybe B to B, there'd be an exception. And so we were exception to the rule. And since going through text search all the things that you're gonna learn. So so useful. One of the most impactful workshops that we did throughout the whole program
Kevin Kaspar: was around jobs to be done, which I think you'll probably did in your application process. And then you really dig deep during the program itself. And we went really deep into jobs to be done. So all of our content marketing any like all of our strategy around how we show up with our customers. We literally use the words that they use and jobs to be done. Interviews. So what we're doing now is resonating with them. We actually did pivot during techstars right before we finished
Kevin Kaspar: the program. And then since our pivot, we've been able to
Kevin Kaspar: go to market, build some partnerships get some traction. And now we're in the midst of beginning our fundraise. So super cool. But yeah, so this is a different way of travel. We're building an entirely new category and travel and trying to space. And it's a really exciting time for us. And I think you've seen in the news. There's a lot of issues with over tourism and mass tourism and depletion of resources. So the industry is right for disruption. And we're kind of right on the heels of a lot of these market challenge.
Kevin Kaspar: Great. So if you want to learn more about how Jayla, like pivoted, based on job speed on insights, you should ask her after the session. It's really interesting. I'm interested in you. Kind of explaining why you wanted to do this workshop. And why that's important. Yeah. So we had a super cohort, which was,
Kevin Kaspar: maybe double the size of this program, and
Kevin Kaspar: more than double the size of this program. Which meant that we had a lot of people to like to coordinate with and align with. And so we knew that we needed to do something different to ensure that we were all kind of aligned on communication, and how we support each other. And the other thing is before I got into the program. I was actually really close with Alex Coe, who is classy. Okay, he's like one of my tech stars best.
Kevin Kaspar: And so he was like, Jlo, whenever you start program you like, make sure you like, build a Whatsapp channel like, figure out your communication because that's like the thing that made us not as close
Kevin Kaspar: and so that was like the one tip that he gave me, and then I took it to like the next level, as I as I do
Kevin Kaspar: so today, building your cohort culture is all about you and getting the most of this program. Because everyone sitting in this room like is going to make it, or make or break how you experience Texas.
Kevin Kaspar: So
Kevin Kaspar: terrific.
Kevin Kaspar: I don't know how you do it.
Kevin Kaspar: Okay? So we're gonna talk about cohort advice and communication and collaboration styles and community building. And I think those are like kind of the 4 pillars of how to make the most of your program. So 1st up
Kevin Kaspar: talking to 4, c's there. Huh?
Kevin Kaspar: Cohort vibes. Okay? So next slide
Kevin Kaspar: you've passed the by check how many people applied. But I will tell you that I did some grading, and I was impressed by very few and for you to make it to this point is pretty spectacular. I think the acceptance rate for techstars is just around 1%. So like, just think about how many people are in this room. And yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: yeah. So we actually had no secret. We had some of the alumni help our team grade. Your selection process assignments. We do it every time. So we pick founders who were really strong in certain areas and have them come back and evaluate.
Kevin Kaspar: it's pretty cool. Right? Yeah, yeah. So yeah, we invited her to come back and grade her submissions along with some other alumni team members.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah. Well, and my assignment passed through multiple pairs of hands like to give particular
Kevin Kaspar: it. It was a long process. It was a long process. Yeah. And there was a lot of grading and a lot of time and effort that went into picking hand picking all of you
Kevin Kaspar: so you should feel really proud. It's actually really cool. And then, as a founder, having graduated from techstars and being in the wild in San Francisco. It is truly wild, like how much recognition people you get from just people seeing your tech star shirts or hearing that you graduated from techstars. There's a little bit of competition between techstars and my C, but tech stars is better for a lot of reasons, but you will experience it.
Kevin Kaspar: There is no, there really is no competition. It totally is. It's true. We have our own spit sauce.
Kevin Kaspar: So yeah, I guess like, this is all to say that you should show up as your badass selves, because every single person in this room is about like, in one way, shape or form. You should share your superpowers. If you are like a total, you know, expert speaker. Or if you're like a great data analyst, or
Kevin Kaspar: you know, miracle was great at financial modeling and helped us with our financial models, like whatever it is that you're really good at like, show up and bring that to the table, and don't be shy to like help your because that's really gonna be. What makes this group so special? Support each other, give each other candid feedback and practice vulnerability. I think, like one of the things that was really cool is that
Kevin Kaspar: we our cohort because there's it was so big. We had a lot of personalities, and some people were annoying, and some people too much, and some people were very quiet and introverted, and we tried to make space for everybody.
Kevin Kaspar: And so I think, like that, having like that intentionality behind, like showing up with your superpowers, and helping each other out and getting each other feedback, and telling each other to shut up every once in a while is important, so that, I think, is like a good tip to remember. I forgot to practice, to prepare you for jail. So with regards to communication
Kevin Kaspar: there, there are so many ways that we all communicate, as you know, like, I'm sure in your workday you're using zoom and slack and
Kevin Kaspar: telegram, and whatever the hell else. And there's just so many ways to communicate. So what we realized very early on this is a tip from Alex. Poe was to figure out like how to make the most of your communication channels. And so when you start your program, probably the week before you started, there was a whole crash course into project management and using base camp base camp is like the Mecca of all things tech stars.
Kevin Kaspar: So like when I say use tech to use base camp. Use it like, use the Kpi tracker, use it to ping your eirs. Use it to communicate with the tech Stars team because you will get so much more out of it if you're actually utilizing tools and util, and having that place as a hub for Neil and Liliana and the team to be able to support you.
Kevin Kaspar: That also impacts like how well you are perceived and also potentially impacts how well you potentially get in like follow on funding so like, just think about tech stars, base camp hub as like
Kevin Kaspar: your brain and your work and so
Kevin Kaspar: I can't say much more about that other than just using facecamp, and it'll take a few days or weeks to get used to it. But just do, because it'll serve you in the long run.
Kevin Kaspar: I love that. Okay, cool. Yes. The other thing is like the powder hotline, or like that call it's Boxer. I basically have learned that the only way to get a hold of Neil is if I boxer him. So if you want to have a you know, open line of communication with Neil. You need to, Boxer.
Kevin Kaspar: and I think in our program probably me and your Chokeboxer him a lot
Kevin Kaspar: so much. And then there were other people that were like. Oh, I don't know. I never talked to Neil, and like that's on you. You can box your meal as much as you want. You can box room late in the night. You can Boxer early in the morning. He literally never sleeps. He wakes up at the corner. He works out, doesn't eat, and then just works all day. So
Kevin Kaspar: you have already a right to Boxer, but doing her homework assignments. And then you qualify. So it's not just the J. Lo. Boxer in July is that she did the stuff that enabled her to actually deserve the box. This is correct, like, do the work, and you'll get out of it when you put into it.
Kevin Kaspar: And the last thing is like everything else, we just use Whatsapp. And so we actually have, like different channels for different things like Bay area based founders. We talk about global events happening. We have an investment channel where we talk through fundraising strategies a sales channel. You'll have a sales workshop and learn how to support each other through sales, especially if you're only like one or 2 co-founders and your founder of sales like
Kevin Kaspar: this channel like we talk all the time. It's like we're constantly we talk like every day. Actually.
Kevin Kaspar: right? So we talk like every day. So yeah, make sure that you set those tools up and utilize them the best that you can, because it will serve you in the long run. The last. The other thing is around collaboration. So
Kevin Kaspar: you will. You will have, I think, 65
Kevin Kaspar: really intensive workshops over the course of 3 months, 12 weeks, and every single workshop is useful like. There wasn't 1 workshop that we had
Kevin Kaspar: where I was like. Oh, that was kind of stupid like every founder shows up. Every workshop is amazing. You'll get something out of it, but we would take notes, and sometimes people will be sick, or they have an investor call, or whatever would happen. And so we share notes with each other. And so like, whoever is like the super pro notetaker. And you're not using AI to do this like.
Kevin Kaspar: you know, there's like a lot of nuance in the founder journey, and like a lot of the challenges and emotion that goes through building a startup and you will see. See it, hear it, learn it from all the founders that you're gonna meet. And so sharing notes is one way to just kind of keep each other on the same page and really support each other.
Kevin Kaspar: Correct. Okay.
Kevin Kaspar: emotion. And like the strike. There's more nuance in some of the sessions where an AI notetaker isn't going to grasp some of the things that you would need to take notes on.
Kevin Kaspar: We don't record every single session we've been able to so far, but there are sessions that the host will not want recorded so that they can be candid with you. So you want to be able to share notes. People, your fellow classmates who might have to miss.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah. And I think in total, we have 458 pages of it.
Kevin Kaspar: We should just write a text source book
Kevin Kaspar: actively, engage in workshops and give each other feedback like I mentioned, like, there's gonna be so many opportunities for you to connect and share. So your weekly ir meetings are with a small group you want to
Kevin Kaspar: provide feedback. Mirta and I were actually the same group, so we always gave each other constructive feedback and like support each other in our go to market and hitting our kpis and milestones. And so you should do that with each other like, don't just be a passive listener in those meetings like, Be active in in engaging and providing feedback, because you never know when someone from a different industry has some crazy insight that's gonna help you
Kevin Kaspar: completely pivot your business and make you wish a ton of money.
Kevin Kaspar: Weekly Kpi updates as well as another session where you, as a whole group, kind of go through your Kpis, and we still have our weekly Kpi meetings even today. So yeah, like, we have basically taken all the tools from tech starts and continued forth, post graduation and we continue to support each other and keep each other accountable to hitting our milestones
Kevin Kaspar: and so like, this is your tribe here, and, like you, are all bad asses, so like, support each other and be successful, because
Kevin Kaspar: I will tell you like we have a few people in our startup cohort that are probably going to become unicorns, and we are going to support each other and invest in each other and make a shit ton of money together so like
Kevin Kaspar: this could be the next uniform component
Kevin Kaspar: by weekly share out. I think you have like these small group meetings, and with your Ceos and Cxos like, be vulnerable.
Kevin Kaspar: They're amazing like you, those are. Gonna be your people like
Kevin Kaspar: you will find people that you connect with and like you can lean on we actually for travars, we have Team Chaweris.
Kevin Kaspar: and it's basically aware, and Travars together. And it's just Lisa Alejandra and me a girl gang, and we just like box up whatsapp each other pretty much like every week. And yeah, so like you'll find little subgroups and whatnot and just like support each other right now. So would you say, you post to the people in your CEO small group?
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, I mean, people will. It's like
Kevin Kaspar: through the program next 3 months. It's gonna be a lot of work like, I think, did you say it's like already a lot of
Kevin Kaspar: I don't know like it's just exhausting right? Like you're gonna be really tired. Give me a lot of scheduling and you're still running your startup in the meantime. And so
Kevin Kaspar: yeah, you're gonna have highs and lows. There's me like customers who churn. There's gonna be acquisition deals that fall to the cracks, and it's gonna be hard. And so
Kevin Kaspar: like these sessions are meant to be a big support for you, because the founder journey, even if you have co-founders is really lonely, especially if you're like a CEO, and you have co-founding team, but like it's just different, being a CEO, and like the worries of like trying to pay your staff and like
Kevin Kaspar: hit milestones and fundraise is a whole different pressure than like building a product or trying to hit your sales goals, or what have you so like your CEO groups, your Cxo groups, those are going to be the people that you can really like
Kevin Kaspar: be vulnerable talk to share out and like support each other through the highs and lows
Kevin Kaspar: and then ongoing needs beyond texters like I said, like
Kevin Kaspar: they're giving you the infrastructure to to support each other like you are going to be a week in person. You're gonna be a few weeks remote virtual. And like that helps you build the right kind of muscle to continue this forward. So, like our team, our cohorts, like all the way across Europe and people dial in at like 9 Pm.
Kevin Kaspar: To meet every week to talk about Apis. So like it's possible it's just a matter of whoever is the person who's organized is gonna have to be the person that like takes charge and leads that we're multiple. Yes, but yeah, the power of text art. This cohort is only as good as how strong you want to work and put into this program and support each other this journey.
Kevin Kaspar: And the last thing I'm gonna talk about is just community building. This is the fun part. I love community building. So creating a contacting, this is like the 1st thing we did. And then we kind of like, yeah, like, it was like a way for us to like, get each other's names or companies that prefer emails. We could like mass email each other instead of like having to manually enter in we got each other's phone numbers and birthdays. And we just like celebrated all these like random things. So whoever's like the organized person in this group, please do this.
Kevin Kaspar: Because it will help you kind of connect also, like it was probably halfway through the program that we started following each other on Instagram, which then like became a whole nother ball game of like just hilarity and stupidity.
Kevin Kaspar: But yeah, so some recommendations have a social chair. I was social chair with Burhan. And basically I'm old and he's young. And so we have, like a geriatric millennial. And a Gen. Z. Party boy basically planned the parties for the cohort. So I don't actually know how old you all are. But basically I planned all the fine dining like wine tastings and high end stuff overnight
Kevin Kaspar: and then Berheim planned all the like. Nightclub rangers and pub crawls so like while you're here together, there's only 3 weeks in the next 12 weeks that you have in person together and like, if you have family, if you have a significant other. If you have kids like.
Kevin Kaspar: put them on hold, like I have 2 kids, and I like I. I live in the Bay Area, and I literally would stay in an Airbnb in Oakland with my co-founders
Kevin Kaspar: and like stick it out together, and we like, just put our families like onto the wayside because right? But like that. So you definitely don't want to neglect them.
Kevin Kaspar: Well, okay. So we also did a lot of events where we had our spouses and children come true, like Ashley's, my new Bestie with Nurtha, and we had, like a really nice dinner house, and we like had jam, sesh.
Kevin Kaspar: and now we're gonna go to wine country. Yes, you're like, that's so we should do like inspiring me, and I'm making a spreadsheet
Kevin Kaspar: but in all serious we should do that virtually because it'd be so cool to like meet everyone's family and friends, and just let them feel a part of it, so maybe we could do that one night like, I don't know. Do a meeting like Dial into home.
Kevin Kaspar: I'll think about the people that actually end up living here, whether alone or with our families, end up really bonding at deeper level. So my co-founder and I moved here. I moved from Israel all the way to the bay, and because of that, Jlo and us and the other people that were here really grew more closely together than those that didn't have a chance. If you have to go, that doesn't mean that you won't still bond, but if you can't say.
Kevin Kaspar: then it is super helpful weeks. If you're if you're going to be away, Mirja. Actually, when he introduced cohort, we realized one of the other members of the cohort was related to her.
Kevin Kaspar: It's not optional. You should totally come. Oh, really! See, I was optional last night, and like after this cohort showed up. It's so awesome like, it's so much better to be in person. That's week 6. Everyone's gonna be
Kevin Kaspar: okay, sweet. Well, then, y'all will be together. But yeah, I would highly recommend having a social chair. It could be 2, 3, 4 of you. Whoever likes to party and bring people together like, do you want to say anything you did. That wasn't my party.
Kevin Kaspar: We had a few dinners together. We did a like they did game nights, too, like I decided in the cover before you, but, like Alex probably saw yesterday, he loves games and working kind of like Dave.
Kevin Kaspar: and he would just post, he would just say, Hey, we're we're introducing this new game at the office next week, if you want to come on Wednesday, and like it was awesome. Daniel went and played those. This is all stuff we brought in. J. Lo, because the team does not do this stuff. This is like, yeah, not a part of us or any sort of you know association. That's all. You guys, you guys are gonna be friends on in your own room.
Kevin Kaspar: They're just making that clear. It's kind of like a tricky thing. We don't really want to know all, all that. But how much? Last month?
Kevin Kaspar: Totally. Yeah. The fun starts with you guys, it's not gonna be the tech stars team that plans the social stuff. You there might be like one or 2 events. So yeah, y'all should figure out who's gonna be the party person. And I'm like looking around. I don't know who it's gonna be, but I feel like an idiot to be. You
Kevin Kaspar: figure out who your hype person is gonna be because, like, I said, there's gonna be a lot of personalities. And you need to have someone who's gonna be a good cheerleader miracle the hype man so obviously. And then you're also gonna have
Kevin Kaspar: have the person who keeps it real. And that would be Vincent Lucero from our crew, because there were so many annoying co-founders that would just talk all the time. And so you just need someone to tell someone to shut the fuck up and like, just put them in their place, because sometimes there will be moments where you're just gonna be annoying, and that's just like the reality of it. And like, please don't be that person.
Kevin Kaspar: But, like, if you are, gonna be that person, someone needs to be the person that's gonna put them in check and not and like promptly.
Kevin Kaspar: And just be honest, just be honest because you're making space for private people. Correct. We have the most amazing team, obviously Neil and Liliana, but also Chloe and Sylvia and Sierra.
Kevin Kaspar: Welcome they will. They're here to support you, and honestly like in the Tech Stars universe. This team is like the only team
Kevin Kaspar: like, truly, I've like gone to New York, Texas, New York. I met Techside, Baltimore. I've met all these other texts from other programs, and like, we literally have the best team.
Kevin Kaspar: And so I can't understand enough like they're just like the fucking
Kevin Kaspar: so make the most of them. They're here to support you. And over the last, you know, 12 weeks that we're together. We built so many new friendships. Me and Alex Co. Are besties. We have people going late night to bars and hearing places and all sorts of stuff. We have a lot of cohort appreciation. So we actually like a lot of amazing people with just like so much
Kevin Kaspar: style. And so we always like would call them out on your style. We played a lot of poker. And actually we had 2 different royal flushes over 2 different poker games. It was insane like. I don't think I think it's like one in a million chance to get it. And I did. I want $2,000 this game, and I want $800, the last game
Kevin Kaspar: I did. I put your 1st like, make money, just so we can put it back into
Kevin Kaspar: so yeah. And we also met each other's families, which is so sweet, like we had people coming in from freaking like Africa and Korea and
Kevin Kaspar: and from all the way on the East coast, and like Dan's husband, he's so sweet he before demo day he gave me this handmade fortune, cookie, and he said that you got this. It was really sweet, but it all culminated to epic like an epic demo day you all are. Gonna have your demo day. We're gonna be there to support you and connect you with all the investors and make sure that you make the fucking most of your your program and like, make a shit ton of money so that we can all make money
Kevin Kaspar: but like, it's just such a fun experience. And honestly, it's like so special. And I I like, came from another accelerator. And then I came to this accelerator, and I'll tell you like this was next level, like Liliana just takes it to a whole other level. I've never seen any other accelerator like true, even. Yc, yeah, so so much appreciation. The tech stars team.
Kevin Kaspar: This is just
Kevin Kaspar: uptown Oakland. There's a lot of really cool local artists. Omiru actually does like these really cool paintings. And so we went and got we like pulled money and got the Texas team some like awesome portraits from Omiru, and we gifted to them for the office. It's like you'll probably see them at some point.
Kevin Kaspar: And then, yeah. And then additional advice from techso 24. We just did a crowd source but there should be some sort of J. Lo Orcha, bring it all together, and hopefully, that person can like corral the crew and bring you guys closer because it it's such a difference.
Kevin Kaspar: But also some things that they had mentioned is like, you know your Whatsapp groups and your CEO sessions like just to like double double tap on that like, you should make the most of these sessions, because those are where you get to really share out like, what's keeping going.
Kevin Kaspar: focus on the program and let everything else be secondary. It's arguably the most valuable thing that you can do over 3 months. And then the other thing was Kobe's notes and sharing notes and
Kevin Kaspar: beer runs event planning poker nights, like all those things, really make a difference. And, like Liliana, said, This is not tech stars like planned outing like you have to plan. It looks like 2 days. Refer to the retreat at the the journey to at and from the Lake House.
Kevin Kaspar: Oh, yes! Oh, my God! Tub hot taste! There you're gonna have chef, Austin. So can you really good drinks? You're probably gonna make some beer runs and some liquor runs because we ran out like every night.
Kevin Kaspar: It's weird. It's really cool.
Kevin Kaspar: It's really cool. Yeah, the chef is amazing. The retreat like you're just gonna get so close, like hot tubs drinks. And just
Kevin Kaspar: talking about philosophy, politics, life, everything. And we became very close because of it. But yeah. So from Texas Spring 24, we welcome you to the Texas family, and we really hope that you make the most of this program. I hope you all are so stoked. You guys are total badasses. Y'all pass a live check. And now you all are ready to take on the world. But yeah, if you have any other questions, if you ever want to get in touch, you are more than welcome to
Kevin Kaspar: ping me. Email me link to me whatsapp me, whatever. I'm always available to you guys because I do believe in the concept of giving birth
Kevin Kaspar: what they're giving 1st and I think it's what makes Texas so different. So yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: And you're based in the Bay area. I'm down in San Jose, San Jose. So I left my husband and kids
Kevin Kaspar: every